The client implementation will be a four-step process.
First, I'll update the navigation bar.
I want to add a new menu item called patient.
Then, I want to add a sub item under patient, called appointments.
The appointments menu item should route the user to the appointments page.
Once I have the navigation in place,
the next step will be to render the display of the list
of existing appointment requests.
This list will be specific to the patient.
I'll also render a form that allows the user to enter new appointment requests.
Finally, I'll stub out the server calls to get existing appointments,
and post new appointments.
Let's start with a closer look at the navigation module.
I'm displaying a snippet of code from the NavbarComponent definition.
You can find this in the Navbar.
component.
typescript file located in the directory source/webapp/app/layouts/navbar.
JHipster takes the approach of defining the
template and styles in separate files.
We're going to make our change to the navigation HTML
template by adding our additional menu.
Within the NavbarComponent definition is an important service
included by the constructor for security.
Principal is a service that, amongst other behaviors,
will retrieve the user identity from the server.
The navigation bar component also has a function for calling this principal
service to determine if the user is authenticated or not.
This is important as the navigation bar elements will be
different based on if the user is authenticated,
as well as if the user has specific authorities.
For an example of the menu item I'll be adding,
I'm showing code for a similar menu item called administration.
Note the jhiHasAnyAuthority directive.
It's just another helper that JHipster is providing you around security.
It restricts the view of the template based on a user's authority.
Our new menu item will check for the authority,
ROLE_PATIENT, where the one I'm displaying checks ROLE_ADMIN.
After this menu item is created,
I'll be able to create a new module to correspond to the route.
Let's add the code for the new menu item now.
So I've opened up Eclipse, I have the project in the work space,
and I've already gone ahead and opened up the navbar.
component.
html template file.
Again, this file is going to define the HTML for our navigation component,
including our menu items for our home, our entities,
our administration, etc.
When JHipster generated this project,
it generated again the HTML and the CSS as two externalized files of the navbar.
component.
typescript file.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to minimize the package
explorer so we can see this HTML template in full.
Great.
So now you can see there are two menu items that are
being displayed in the editor.
The first one is the Home menu, and the second one is the Entities menu.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to drop in our new menu for Patient.
So I've dropped in quite a bit of code,
what you can see here to start with is that we have a new list item,
this list item is for the patient menu, and then we have a drop-down,
which includes our appointment submenu.
I'm not going to get into all of the code here,
but I do want to point out a couple of key aspects.
First, note that we have the jhiHasAnyAuthority directive.
This directive is going to determine whether or not this menu item shows,
based on the user's role.
Remember that again we changed our role for ROLE_USER to ROLE_PATIENT,
and I'm including that as the authority,
so I only want users with the patient role to have
the authority to see this menu.
That's going to include both the menu and the submenu.
Now where does that get defined?
I've also opened up a file called has-any-authority.
directive.
ts.
Let's go ahead and open that now.
And I'll open up the package explorer so you can see
where this file was generated.
Scroll up here.
So while our Navbar was defined in the layouts folder, the has-any-authority.
directive was generated under the shared/auth folder.
So as you can see here, JHipster generated this construct for you,
so it's supporting this feature to be able to show and hide
based on your authority right out of the box.
And this is kind of a neat feature.
So, again, we're going to use that to show and hide our patients,
so I'll go ahead and I'll close this,
and I'll also minimize the package explorer again.
And one last thing that I want to note is that in the definition of the
submenu for appointments we have our router link.
So that router link will point to our new module's route,
which is going to patient-appointments.
I'm going to drop that in here shortly,
but that's pretty much all we needed to do to add a new menu item.
Let's look at the browser now and we can see what this new menu looks like.
So I'm showing the browser again, I have the application up and running,
note if you haven't started both the client and server,
I would recommend doing so now.
If we look at the navigation bar we can see as an
anonymous user I don't have the Patients menu.
So let's try to log in.
I'm going to click the Account menu, let's click Sign in.
Again I'm going to log in with user as the Login and user as the Password,
click Sign in, and there we go, we have our Patient menu.
Let's try to look at the drop-down, and we see an Appointments submenu.
So, our navigation bar menu has been added successfully.
If I try to click on it, well it's not really going to do much,
right, because we haven't set up the route,
but we at least know that we now have this navigation bar.
So our setup as well of the has authority was successful
because we have our patient role already configured for our
user as per our last module,
and let's just make sure that the administration account works as well.
So I'm going to log out of here,
I'm going to click Account again and click Sign in,
and let's try with admin.
So I logged in with admin as the Username,
admin as the Password, and once again we see the Patient menu,
and we also see the Appointments submenu.
So it looks like everything was successful with the navigation bar. Now, let's build out the module to support this feature.